A northbound RENAULT CLASSA (V1) was travelling at a driver-estimated speed of 75 to 80 km/h. In a statement to police, the driver of the V1 said that he saw an approaching transport. The centreline was covered with snow so he reportedly attempted to stay to the far right side of the travel lane. The driver also stated that he thought that the V1 had travelled onto the shoulder and then he “… corrected to get back on the road”. The V1 subsequently crossed the centreline, entering the path of the southbound V2 (HYUNDAI ACCENT ACCENT). According to the driver of the V1, he steered to the left in an attempt to reach the shoulder of the southbound lane and avoid a collision.The approaching vehicle was a HYUNDAI ACCENT ACCENT (V2). The Provincial Motor Vehicle Accident (MVA) report indicates that the V2 was southbound at a driver-estimated speed of 80 km/h. In a statement to police, the driver of the V2 said that he began slowing the vehicle when he noticed an oncoming vehicle. He further stated that the V2 was travelling 65 km/h when the V1 crossed into the path of his vehicle. The driver of the V2 stated that there was no warning or indication prior to the V1 entering his lane and that he did not have sufficient time to avoid a collision. The right front corner of the V2 collided with the right side of the V1. This impact deployed the dual front airbags in the V1. It also tore a swath through the V1 from the right B-pillar, across the vehicle to the left rear corner of the van.The V1 was rotating clockwise as it travelled to the northwest after impact. The V1 came to rest facing east on the shoulder / roadway embankment adjacent to the southbound lane of the highway.The V2 travelled to the southwest onto the shoulder of the southbound lane after impact. The V2 came to rest facing west and was furrowed in the snow on the roadway embankment, approximately 40 metres from the point of impact. Wreckage from the rear and right side wall of the V1 was on the embankment near the right side of the V2 at final rest.Two of the four occupants were ejected from the V1 through the opening created by the impact with the V2. All two of these occupants were fatally injured during the crash. One occupant was partially ejected from the vehicle and was fatally injured during the crash.
The V2 initially contacted the right wall of the V1 just behind the B-pillar. The entire rear wall and the portion of the right wall that is rearward of the B-pillar were completely separated from the V1. The right front corner of the roof was displaced rearward and downward. The roof deformation severed the connection between the roof and the top of the right A-pillar. It also extensively cracked the entire windshield and tore the laminated windshield horizontally from the top of the right A-pillar to the top of the left A-pillar. All of the remaining window glazing was shattered, with the exception of the window in the driver’s door and the left side cargo window. The mount for the passenger side mirror was broken. The right rear tire was punctured and deflated. The right rear wheel rim was broken and deformed. The bolts were sheared off that hold the front spring shackle for the right rear suspension to the vehicle frame. The right rear wheel assembly was displaced 16 cm rearward. The mount holding the spare tire failed, allowing it to separate from its storage location at the rear underside of the vehicle.The front-end of the V2 was crushed rearward, involving the front bumper, the hood, and the right and left front fender. A maximum crush of 27 cm rearward was measured to the left of the centre of the front bumper beam, corresponding to the point of impact with the right rear wheel assembly of the V1. The bumper fascia was almost completely separated from the V2. The left side of the steering axle was displaced 16 cm rearward. The right side of the steering axle was displaced approximately 66 cm rearward. The front of the right side diesel tank was crushed rearward from contact with the displaced right front wheel. The damaged fuel tank broke from its mounts and completely separated from the vehicle during the crash. The fibreglass engine cowl and fender assembly was shattered, with the damage concentrated on the right side of the assembly. The radiator core was crushed and punctured. The windshield was extensively cracked from the contact with vehicle debris. The cab was twisted clockwise on the vehicle frame.