The front of the right side diesel tank was crushed rearward from contact with the displaced right front wheel. Wreckage from the rear and right side wall of the V1 was on the embankment near the right side of the V2 at final rest. The right front corner of the V2 collided with the right side of the V1. The front-end of the V2 was crushed rearward, involving the front bumper, the hood, and the right and left front fender. It also tore a swath through the V1 from the right B-pillar, across the vehicle to the left rear corner of the van. The bolts were sheared off that hold the front spring shackle for the right rear suspension to the vehicle frame. The right rear wheel assembly was displaced 16 cm rearward. The entire rear wall and the portion of the right wall that is rearward of the B-pillar were completely separated from the V1. The right side of the steering axle was displaced approximately 66 cm rearward. It also extensively cracked the entire windshield and tore the laminated windshield horizontally from the top of the right A-pillar to the top of the left A-pillar. The right front corner of the roof was displaced rearward and downward. The fibreglass engine cowl and fender assembly was shattered, with the damage concentrated on the right side of the assembly. The centreline was covered with snow so he reportedly attempted to stay to the far right side of the travel lane. All of the remaining window glazing was shattered, with the exception of the window in the driver’s door and the left side cargo window. In a statement to police, the driver of the V2 said that he began slowing the vehicle when he noticed an oncoming vehicle. The right rear wheel rim was broken and deformed. The left side of the steering axle was displaced 16 cm rearward. According to the driver of the V1, he steered to the left in an attempt to reach the shoulder of the southbound lane and avoid a collision. The right rear tire was punctured and deflated. The roof deformation severed the connection between the roof and the top of the right A-pillar. The mount holding the spare tire failed, allowing it to separate from its storage location at the rear underside of the vehicle. The V1 came to rest facing east on the shoulder / roadway embankment adjacent to the southbound lane of the highway. The driver also stated that he thought that the V1 had travelled onto the shoulder and then he “… corrected to get back on the road”. The V2 initially contacted the right wall of the V1 just behind the B-pillar. The V2 came to rest facing west and was furrowed in the snow on the roadway embankment, approximately 40 metres from the point of impact.